I am a person who has always had a profound passion and fascination for areas requiring an analytical approach. Right from early days at school, Mathematics has intrigued me. The most challenging of all problems were my favorites and obtaining solutions to them would leave me with a sheer feeling of ecstasy. I always did and always would thrive on solving the most challenging problems. With a compelling desire to excel, hard work became my second nature. My aspiration for a technical career prompted me to take up one of the most coveted undergraduate program in Computer Engineering at Pune Institute of Computer Technology (http://www.pictsctr.edu), the best of such institutions. My own systematic & methodical approach towards finding a solution to any problem best suits this field.

 

During the first two years of undergraduate study I studied courses like, Theory of Computer Science, Data structure and File Systems, Microprocessor Based Design and Computer Organization and Systems Programming.  These courses helped me gain a strong background in the fundamentals of Computer Science. These were aptly complemented by the laboratory courses.  The challenging assignments that were a part of the laboratory courses helped me to develop the required technical and programming skills. During the last two years of my study, I took advanced courses like Artificial Intelligence, Compiler Design, Databases, Operating Systems and Computer Networks.

 

My final year project entitled “COMPACT-A Flash File System”, was a sponsored project by KPIT Cummins Infosystems Ltd., Pune.Main objective of this project was to develop a file system for compact flash media, which is a small, removable mass storage device, with compact source code that can be used for embedded systems. The file system was designed to fit many kinds of embedded design requirements. The source code was developed using ANSI C so that was compiled using any compiler. COMPACT was made a high performance library by optimizing for speed, versatility and memory footprint. The end user can use this as a library by adding the path of the executable and using its API for performing various functions on the compact flash.

 

Realizing the importance of networking and network security and the abundant scope of research in this area, I did a seminar on “Security at Seven Layers”.  This stemmed from the need for secure transfer of information over the internet. The objective was to study the different vulnerabilities at each layer and means of providing security against them.

Although a focused academic, I balanced my scholastic efforts by participating in extra-curricular activities. I was on the managing committee of ‘Concepts 2004’, a national level project exhibition and competition, which focuses on providing a platform for interaction between industry experts and final year students by showcasing the talents of the latter in the form of their final year projects.

 

Further studies were always a priority for me but it was my belief that before that I must gather some valuable work experience in order to gain a larger perspective of the industry. In keeping with this idea I joined Symantec Corporation (http://www.symantec.com), the world leader in security products, continue to work there. My work experience turned out to be extremely enriching for me on a host of levels. Working at Symantec has sharpened my research skills. It has inculcated in me team spirit and the ability to interact and work with both colleagues and seniors in a proactive manner. It has also helped me in accepting the challenges involved to expertise new domain and new technology, getting familiarized to new concepts and has developed a sense of professionalism in me. All in all my days at Symantec have served in focusing my interest towards research and development. Recently, the MySymantec Team, of which I am a part, won the prestigious ‘IT Symantec Team’ award.

While my present job at Symantec has helped me develop a thorough insight into project handling, the industry environment that I am currently in cannot quench my desire for research. I possess industry-hardened skills in computers, but I must build on these to achieve my goal of undertaking cutting-edge research in Database, Operating Systems and Computer Networks. I therefore believe that I must return to the academic world for further growth.

 

I have obtained information about the facilities and courses after a detailed study of university websites and have decided to apply to your university for graduate studies. I have learnt that several professors are engaged in research in areas that interest me. I would consider it a privilege to be taught by such renowned faculty. Your university offers an invigorating environment which will give a platform to explore my interests and a definite direction to my goals. I resolve to approach the program with enthusiasm and hard work and use the opportunity to advance my learning optimally.

 
